Hey guys will come back to the course so in this lecture we're going to dive a little bit deeper into
portfolios and we're going to talk about what are the common mistakes that everybody seems to make when
they're picking their portfolio and putting it together.
Now you might just want to take every single thing you've ever done and stick it into a portfolio.
And that's kind of an amateur mistake.
Don't worry that I just called you an amateur.
I did that too.
I took everything I could possibly think of stuffed it into a PTF.
And that was my portfolio.
Now why do I say this because portfolios are kind of tricky psychologically when you look at someone's
portfolio or someone looks at yours.
They're automatically going to judge you by your worst item.
That is kind of the Assumption across the board that people make your worst portfolio item is probably
representative of what they're going to get from you.
Now that night that's not necessarily true but that's what they think.
Right.
And this kind of comes back to what we talked about the previous electrify five portfolio items and
one of them is terrible.
Why would I work with someone that 1 out of five times produces something that's very low quality.
I mean imagine that like if you had five portfolio items and four were phenomenal and one was terrible
what would you think you might be ecstatic that the four were great but also realistically you're probably
worried like what happened with that fifth one.
So when you pile everything in together you have no control over the consistency of the quality.
And what ends up happening is they're always just going to take the worst item.
So it's better to take a smaller portfolio that's curated and presented in a positive way.
So keep in mind pick the better ones keep a smaller group that you show off.
And like we talked about before.
Consistency is key.
Make sure that whatever you show is consistent in quality.
Now another thing that you need to keep in mind about with portfolios if you're doing a development
project people when they look at development portfolios automatically biased towards good graphic design
and that's completely irrational from our perspective.
Poor graphic design or poor user experience will no matter how hard and technologically advanced the
app is it will make it look bad.
Unfortunately people always think that good design means good app..
Even some of the most experienced people out there when selecting providers make this basic mistake
because remember at the end of the day the person making the purchasing decision.
They're also a consumer and they're probably going to pick something that looks good to the consumer
because they want a good product.
So if you have the option pick ones that look good over ones that show off your technical prowess.
Now if a client specifically asked for something that looks complicated or specific to their use case
then you can provide it to them.
You can also preemptively do this when you know someone's looking at your portfolio you can send that
to them.
You can see design polish but it's very hard to see technical prowess.
So at first focus on simpler but better looking items.
And as you get more and more portfolio items to choose from you can expand from simpler to more complex
as long as you keep the consistency of quality the same.
So the main takeaways keep your portfolio small.
Be aware of what the worst item in your group is.
And if you have to choose pick ones that are simpler but look better technologically advanced sites
they don't.
It's not immediately obvious that they are so technologically advanced.
OK guys keep that in mind when you're building your portfolio or planning out your portfolio.
Incorporate this into the clients you take on as well.
You know a client can have a great portfolio item be more flexible with them.
OK.
See the next lecture.